
Challenge ProMode Arena: NTF
----------------------------
Date: 3 Dec 06


NTF is a class-based form of CTF, somewhat reminiscent of Team Fortress
but really having very little in common with it.
Flags, Powerups, and Ammo are all present just as in CTF, but maps have
no Armour, no Health except for the MegaHealth, and no Weapons.

Players spawn with no armour, and an initial health and weapon loadout
determined by the class.

Health and armour both regenerate at 5 points per second: health up to
100, and armour up to the class's maximum.

Backpacks from corpses give one box of ammo for all your weapons and an
armour shard.


Classes are defined by the files in cpma/classes and like modes can be
customised extensively. The options for class definitions are:

n - name ("Scout", "Fighter", etc)

m - model ("slash", sarge", etc)
NTF models always use ProMode skins

s - base speed
320 is standard CPM speed, i.e. VERY fast if the player is skilled enough

h - spawn health

a - maximum armour

ac - armour class
One of the CPMA armour types: 0 - Green, 1 - Yellow, 2 - Red

ht - hook type (0 - None, 1 - Offhand, 2 - Onhand)

hp - hook pull
How fast a grappling player moves

hs - hook speed
How fast the grapple hook itself moves

jd 1 - can double jump

jr 1 - can ramp jump

wX s,m,b,g - weapon loadout and ammo
w2 is MG, w3 SG, and so on. The four arguments set the ammo counts for
initial spawn, max, "box" pickup (i.e. a dropped pack), and "gun" pickup
(i.e. an item pack). They MUST all be specified, and MUST be comma-separated
with no spaces between them (just like "ammo" lines in mode configs).
Whether a class has a weapon or not is determined by the presence of a wX
line, not the spawn ammo, so it's possible to give a class a certain weapon
but have it be unusable until the player acquires ammo for it from a pack.

sw - starting weapon
Must be one of the numbers from a wX line (or 1 for gauntlet). Handy for
classes like Scout that spawn with SG and GL to prevent GL being selected
just because it's the "higher" weapon

There is basically no checking done on any part of the class definitions.
If you're not capable of getting them right, you probably shouldn't be messing
with them in the first place.  :)


Although we don't currently enforce it, realistically NTF requires CPM
settings. PMC lets Fighters and Tanks move faster than Scouts; CQ3 nerfs
advanced movement so badly that classes which depend on it become almost
unplayable; and VQ3 simply doesn't work.
Still, it's the admin's choice to make so...


In case you hadn't worked it out yet, NTF stands for "Not Team Fortress".  :)
